# Code for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Self-Training for Weed Segmentation

## Abstract
Accurate crop and weed segmentation in varied field conditions is crucial for advancing automated weed management but remains challenging. Though promising, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) often experience performance drops when deployed in new field environments due to shifts between training and test data distributions.

To address this limitation, we proposed a self-training framework using a teacher-student model that adapts CNNs for diverse agricultural contexts. Our method enhances generalization by co-training the student model on both the source domain and pseudo-labelled target domain generated by the teacher model, with teacher parameters updated via an exponential moving average of the student’s model.


### Datasets
We evaluated our framework with the ROSE challenge dataset at [Mendeley Dataset](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/x8brgg2j28/2)

## Citation
Yingchao Huang, Amina E. Hussein, Xin Wang, Abdul Bais, Shanshan Yao, Tanis Wilder,  
**Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Self-Training for Weed Segmentation**,  
*Intelligent Systems with Applications*, 2024, 200468, ISSN 2667-3053,  
[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iswa.2024.200468](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iswa.2024.200468)

## Note
The other codes can be found at [Mendeley Dataset](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/x8brgg2j28/2). You only need to replace the `training_utils.py` file with the one attached here and update other information (e.g., model name, dataset) accordingly. Please train the base model first to use the proposed method.
I already the previous research group. This is a quick implementation based on my memory, if you find any bug/typo with this code, please let me know.
